update authorization for HTTP task for v1beta1 policy (#5185)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/security/authz-http/index.md

---

> title: Authorization for HTTP workloads

Author: Yes, that's the workload we want to refer to in this task.

Also updated to user `traffic` to replace the `protocoal` based on comments from @geeknoid in the other PR.

    kind: AuthorizationPolicy
    metadata:
      name: deny-all
      namespace: default
    spec:
      {}
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).
    You should see `"RBAC: access denied"`. The error shows that the configured `deny-all` policy
    is working as intended, and Istio doesn't have any rules that allow any access to
    workloads in the mesh.

1. Run the following command to create a `productpage-viewer` policy to allow access
   with `GET` method to the `productpage` workload. The policy does not set the `from`
   field in the `rules` which means all sources are allowed, effectively allowing
   all users and workloads:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
    kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
    metadata:
      name: "productpage-viewer"
      namespace: default
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: productpage
      rules:
      - to:
        - operation:
            methods: ["GET"]
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).

>     Now you should see the "Bookinfo Sample" page. But there are errors `Error fetching product details`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Now you should see the "Bookinfo Sample" page. However, you can see the following errors on the page:
    
     - `Error fetching product details`
```

>     and `Error fetching product reviews` on the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `Error fetching product reviews`
```

When you refresh the page, the app shows different versions of reviews in the product page.
The app presents the reviews in a round robin style: red stars, black stars, or no stars.

{{< tip >}}
If you don't see the expected output in the browser as you follow the task, retry in a few more seconds
because some delay is possible due to caching and other propagation overhead.
{{< /tip >}}

## Configure access control for workloads using HTTP traffic

Using Istio, you can easily setup access control for {{< gloss "workload" >}}workloads{{< /gloss >}}
in your mesh. This task shows you how to set up access control using Istio authorization.

> You will start with a simple `deny-all` policy that rejects all requests to the workload,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you configure a simple `deny-all` policy that rejects all requests to the workload,
```

and then grant more access to the workload gradually and incrementally.

> 1. Run the following command to create a policy `deny-all`, the policy has no rule so it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command to create a `deny-all` policy. The `spec:` field of the policy has the
empty value `{}`. That value means that no traffic is permitted, effectively denying all requests.
```

>    cannot grant permission for any traffic. In other words, it denies all:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: AuthorizationPolicy
    metadata:
      name: deny-all
      namespace: default
    spec:
      {}
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).
    You should see `"RBAC: access denied"`. The error shows that the configured `deny-all` policy
    is working as intended, and Istio doesn't have any rules that allow any access to
    workloads in the mesh.

>     With Istio, you can easily configure namespace-level access control. You can configure how could workloads

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    With Istio, you can easily configure namespace-level access control. This approach enables you to configure  access control for workloads
```

>     from a namespace access workloads in another namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    in a namespace to access workloads in another namespace.
```

1. Run the following command to create a `bookinfo-viewer` policy that allows workloads in the `default`

>    and `istio-system` namespaces to access workloads in the `default` namespace with `GET` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and `istio-system` namespaces to access workloads in the `default` namespace with the `GET` method:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
    kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
    metadata:
      name: "bookinfo-viewer"
      namespace: default
    spec:
      rules:
      - from:
        - source:
            namespaces: ["default", "istio-system"]
        to:
        - operation:
            methods: ["GET"]
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    Point your browser at Bookinfo's `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).
    You should see the "Bookinfo Sample" page, with the "Book Details" section in the lower left part
    and the "Book Reviews" section in the lower right part.

> 1. Remove the policy with the following command before continuing:

Reviewer: Why do you ask readers to remove the policy? Going one step further, why are you applying the policy in the first place? Are you just trying to showcase namespace-level access control?

Author: Yes, this is to showcase the namespace-level access control. We need to remove it otherwise the following workload-level policies doesn't make sense because the permission had already been granted in the namespace-level policy.

Reviewer: I would suggest you don't show the namespace-level access control here if it is not needed to complete the flow.
Another option would be to complete the flow using namespace-level access control, would that be doable?

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete authorizationpolicy.security.istio.io/bookinfo-viewer
    {{< /text >}}

1. Run the following command to create a `productpage-viewer` policy which allows

>    access to the `productpage` workload with `GET` method for all users and workloads:

Reviewer: Where in the configuration can a reader configure access to "all users and workloads"? Based on what I see in the yaml, it only applies to requests with the `productpage` label.

Author: This is because the policy doesn't set `from` field in the `rule`. Updated the doc to make this clear.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
    kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
    metadata:
      name: "productpage-viewer"
      namespace: default
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: productpage
      rules:
      - to:
        - operation:
            methods: ["GET"]
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).
    Now you should see the "Bookinfo Sample" page. But there are errors `Error fetching product details`
    and `Error fetching product reviews` on the page.

    These errors are expected because we have not granted the `productpage`

>     workload access to the `details` and `reviews` workloads. We will fix the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    workload access to the `details` and `reviews` workloads. Next, you need to configure a policy to
```

>     errors in the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    grant access to those workloads.
```

> 1. Run the following command to create a policy `details-viewer` to allow the `productpage`

Reviewer: Always put the name of the component before the noun and use `the` not `a` for specific objects. See my suggestion below and please make sure that format is followed throughout. 
```suggestion
1. Run the following command to create the `details-viewer` policy  to allow the `productpage`
```

>    workload (represented by `principals: ["cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-productpage"]`)

Reviewer: `represented by` might be well known jargon within the security team but not for our users. Please use simpler wording.
```suggestion
   workload, which issues requests using the `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-productpage` service account,
```

   to access the `details` workload through `GET` methods:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
    kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
    metadata:
      name: "details-viewer"
      namespace: default
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: details
      rules:
      - from:
        - source:
            principals: ["cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-productpage"]
        to:
        - operation:
            methods: ["GET"]
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Run the following command to create a policy `reviews-viewer` to allow the `productpage` workload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command to create a policy `reviews-viewer` to allow the `productpage` workload,
```

>    (represented by `principals: ["cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-productpage"]`) to access the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   which issues requests using the `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-productpage` service account,
```

   `reviews` workload through `GET` methods:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
    kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
    metadata:
      name: "reviews-viewer"
      namespace: default
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: reviews
      rules:
      - from:
        - source:
            principals: ["cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-productpage"]
        to:
        - operation:
            methods: ["GET"]
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

>     Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`). Now you should see the "Bookinfo Sample"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`). Now, you should see the "Bookinfo Sample"
```

    page with "Book Details" on the lower left part, and "Book Reviews" on the lower right part. However, in the "Book Reviews" section,
    there is an error `Ratings service currently unavailable`.

>     This is because "reviews" workload does not have permission to access `ratings` workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This is because the `reviews` workload doesn't have permission to access the `ratings` workload.
```

>     To fix this issue, you need to grant the `reviews` workload access to the `ratings` workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To fix this issue, you need to grant the `reviews` workload access to the `ratings` workload.
```

>     We will show how to do that in the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we configure a policy to grant the `reviews` workload that access.
```

> 1. Run the following command to create a policy `ratings-viewer` to allow the `reviews` workload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command to create the `ratings-viewer` policy to allow the `reviews` workload,
```

>    (represented by `principals: ["cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-reviews"]`) to access the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  which issues requests using the `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-reviews` service account, to access the
```

When you refresh the page, the app shows different versions of reviews in the product page.
The app presents the reviews in a round robin style: red stars, black stars, or no stars.

{{< tip >}}
If you don't see the expected output in the browser, retry in a few more seconds
as there may be some delays due to caching and other propagation overhead.
{{< /tip >}}

## Enforce mesh-level access control

Using Istio, you can easily setup mesh-level access control for all workloads in your mesh.

Run the following command to create a mesh-level access control policy `deny-all` policy

> with no workload selector in the root namespace `istio-system`, the policy will select all

Reviewer 2: Should we add a link for root namespace reference (e.g this https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/) ? It may also worth to mention `istio-system` is the value used in the "before you begin" section

Reviewer 3: +1. Also, root namespace is configurable. Readers need to make sure that root namespace is not set to any other value. Maybe we can have a step here to check the value of the root namespace.

Author: Updated to link to mesh config.

The task assumes istio is installed with the basic quick start as a demo purpose, we can mention the root namespace is configurable but I don't think we need to check it in this task.

workloads in the mesh:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: deny-all
  namespace: istio-system
spec:

>   {}

Reviewer 2: I think you need to high light `{}` means deny-all. Also, add examples or explain that user can set other mesh-wide policy than deny-all (or not)

EOF
{{< /text >}}

Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).
Now you should see `"RBAC: access denied"`. The error shows that the configured `deny-all`
policy is working as intended, and Istio doesn't have any rules that allow any access to
workloads in the mesh.

> ### Disable mesh-level access control

Reviewer 2: I think the previous phrase "clean up" is better. You don't need to "disable" if you haven't add it in the first place.

Disable the configured access control with the following command before continuing:

{{< text bash >}}

> $ kubectl delete authorizationpolicy.security.istio.io/deny-all -n istio-system

Reviewer 2: [nit] just `authorizationpolicy` may be sufficient.

Author: This is to avoid a tricky case where user is upgrading from 1.3 where there is a `authorizationpolicy.istio.io` resource for some legacy reason. That CRD is never used though.

{{< /text >}}

## Enforce namespace-level access control

With Istio, you can easily setup namespace-level access control. You can configure whether

> workloads from a namespace can access all or a collection of workloads in another namespace.

Reviewer 2: A bit hard to read. Can you rephrase?

Author: Done.

The Bookinfo sample deploys the `productpage`, `reviews`, `details`, `ratings` {{< gloss "workload" >}}workloads{{< /gloss >}}
in the `default` namespace. Istio deploys its components, for example `istio-ingressgateway`,
in the `istio-system` namespace.

The following command creates a `bookinfo-viewer` policy that allows workloads in the `default`

> and `istio-system` namespaces to access workloads in the `default` namespace with `GET` method:

Reviewer 2: [nit] It may cause some confusion between the use of `istio-system` as root namespace, and as a namespace that some workload run. It would be best if the setup use different value for root namespace.

Author: I think the current installation uses `istio-system` as the default root namespace, should be updated to a separate value.

Reviewer 2: You may avoid include it here for simplicity. 

I also recommend do the workload policy first to grand ingress to access product-page, and showing the result that request to ingress now get to the product page but no content (you still have global deny-all). Then next step is adding namespace policy for all bookinfo apps, and now every thing works again.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
metadata:
  name: "bookinfo-viewer"
  namespace: default
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        namespaces: ["default", "istio-system"]
    to:
    - operation:
        methods: ["GET"]
EOF
{{< /text >}}

You can expect to see output similar to the following:

{{< text plain >}}
authorizationpolicy.security.istio.io/bookinfo-viewer created
{{< /text >}}

Now if you point your browser at Bookinfo's `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).
You should see the "Bookinfo Sample" page, with the "Book Details" section in the lower left part
and the "Book Reviews" section in the lower right part.

> ### Disable namespace-level access control

Reviewer 2: Same here, "clean up" make more sense to me.

Reviewer 3: +1

Author: I made the change from @rcaballeromx's comment, I can revert it back but note we cannot have multiple `### Clean up`, we have to make the title different from each other.

When you refresh the page, the app shows different versions of reviews in the product page.
The app presents the reviews in a round robin style: red stars, black stars, or no stars.

{{< tip >}}
If you don't see the expected output in the browser, retry in a few more seconds
as there may be some delays due to caching and other propagation overhead.
{{< /tip >}}

> ## Enforce mesh-level access control

Reviewer 3: Enforcing

Using Istio, you can easily setup mesh-level access control for all workloads in your mesh.

Run the following command to create a mesh-level access control policy `deny-all` policy
in the root namespace, A policy in the root namespace will select all workloads in the mesh.

The root namespace is configurable in the [`MeshConfig`](/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshConfig)
and has the default value of `istio-system`. If you have changed it to a different value from the
default `istio-system`, Please update the value accordingly in the following examples.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: deny-all
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  {}
EOF
{{< /text >}}

> The `{}` in the policy means `deny-all`, you can also set other mesh-level policy for your own needs.

Reviewer 2: This phrase may confuse users that this is a deny rule. In fact, `{}` is just a general yaml syntax for empty. 
Suggest to reword to smt like:

```
This policy has no rule so it cannot grant permission for any traffic. In other words, it denies all.
```

Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).
Now you should see `"RBAC: access denied"`. The error shows that the configured `deny-all`
policy is working as intended, and Istio doesn't have any rules that allow any access to
workloads in the mesh.

> ### Clean up mesh-level access control

Reviewer 3: Clean up => Cleaning up

Author: See my other comment.

> ### Clean up mesh-level access control

Reviewer 2: I think you should keep this policy, as it's more natural to show the namespace or workload policy effects later (granting access).
Again, I think we should change the narrative of this tutorial. Putting in 3 distinguished scopes is hard for user to understand why. Rather, you should showing deny-all via global, then open per-namespace and/or workload, pointing out the permission are always _additive_ in all cases.

Author: this policy is added again in the `Enforce workload-level access control` section where we explicitly talk about this process that grants more permission gradually. I was mainly trying to maintain the same structure but just switch to use the new policy in these tasks, I agree we probably need to rewrite the task completely, and I think it would be better to not to use bookinfo, but to use sleep/httpbin that gives us more flexibility to show different features of the API.

Disable the configured access control with the following command before continuing:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete authorizationpolicy.security.istio.io/deny-all -n istio-system
{{< /text >}}

> ## Enforce namespace-level access control

Reviewer 3: Enforce => Enforcing

Author: @rcaballeromx is asking me to change this from "enforcing" to "enforce", can we reach agreements before making any further changes?

Reviewer 3: @rcaballeromx can decide. I was looking at the current docs. But there is inconsistency here and there. Mostly it has "ing" after a verb in the title, but there are exceptions. For example: https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/tasks/security/health-check/#deploying-citadel-with-health-checking, https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/tasks/traffic-management/circuit-breaking/

in the `istio-system` namespace.

The following command creates a `bookinfo-viewer` policy that allows workloads in the `default`
and `istio-system` namespaces to access workloads in the `default` namespace with `GET` method:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
metadata:
  name: "bookinfo-viewer"
  namespace: default
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        namespaces: ["default", "istio-system"]
    to:
    - operation:
        methods: ["GET"]
EOF
{{< /text >}}

You can expect to see output similar to the following:

{{< text plain >}}
authorizationpolicy.security.istio.io/bookinfo-viewer created
{{< /text >}}

Now if you point your browser at Bookinfo's `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).
You should see the "Bookinfo Sample" page, with the "Book Details" section in the lower left part
and the "Book Reviews" section in the lower right part.

### Clean up namespace-level access control

Disable the configured access control with the following command before continuing:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete authorizationpolicy.security.istio.io/bookinfo-viewer
{{< /text >}}

> ## Enforce workload-level access control

Reviewer 3: Enforcing

    "ratings" workload. To fix this issue, you need to grant the `reviews` workload access to the `ratings` workload.
    We will show how to do that in the next step.

1. Allow access to the `ratings` workload

    The following command creates a policy to allow the `reviews` workload to access the `ratings` workload. Note that in the
    [setup step](#before-you-begin), we created a `bookinfo-reviews` service account for the `reviews` workload. This
    service account is the authenticated identify for the `reviews` workload.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
    kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
    metadata:
      name: "ratings-viewer"
      namespace: default
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: ratings
      rules:
      - from:
        - source:
            principals: ["cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-reviews"]
        to:
        - operation:
            methods: ["GET"]
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`). Now you should see
    the "black" and "red" ratings in the "Book Reviews" section.

> ### Clean up workload-level access control

Reviewer 3: Cleaning up

This task shows you how to set up workload-level access control using Istio authorization.
You will start with a simple `deny-all` policy that rejects all requests to the workload, and then
grant the permission gradually and incrementally to allow more access to the workload.

1. Apply a default `deny-all` policy for workloads in the default namespace

    The following command creates a `deny-all` policy with no workload selector, the policy will
    select all workloads in the default namespace. The policy will deny all access and we will
    add more policies to grant the access incrementally in following steps.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: AuthorizationPolicy
    metadata:
      name: deny-all
    spec:
      {}
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).
    Now you should see `"RBAC: access denied"`. The error shows that the configured `deny-all` policy
    is working as intended, and Istio doesn't have any rules that allow any access
    to workloads in the default namespace.

1. Allow access to the `productpage` workload

>     The following command creates a `productpage-viewer` policy which allows

Reviewer: Please make sure the explanation comes before the call to action.
Readers need the context before you ask them to perform the action, not after.

    access to the `productpage` workload with `GET` method for all users and workloads.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
    kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
    metadata:
      name: "productpage-viewer"
      namespace: default
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: productpage
      rules:
      - to:
        - operation:
            methods: ["GET"]
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).
    Now you should see the "Bookinfo Sample" page. But there are errors `Error fetching product details`
    and `Error fetching product reviews` on the page. These errors are expected because
    we have not granted the `productpage` workload access to the `details` and `reviews` workloads.
    We will fix the errors in the following steps.

1. Allow access to the `details` and `reviews` workloads

>     The following command has the following effects:

Reviewer: This context should come before the call to action.

    * Creates a `details-viewer` policy which allows access with `GET` method to the `details` workload for
      service account `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-productpage` (representing the `details` workload).

    * Creates a `reviews-viewer` policy which allows access with `GET` method to the `reviews` workload for
      service account `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-productpage` (representing the `reviews` workload).

>     Note that in the [setup step](#before-you-begin), we created the `bookinfo-productpage` service account

Reviewer: The section you are referencing does not mention any of this. The linked instructions do. Please link to the actual Bookinfo deployment instructions instead.

>     for the `productpage` workload. This `bookinfo-productpage` service account is the authenticated identify

Reviewer: There appears to be a typo but I ask, do the reader need to know this to complete the task? If your goal is for readers to make the connection between the SA and the value in `-from: -source: principals:` in the YAML file, then use the full value. Don't assume readers know how to complete the path with just the SA name. Also, you would need to explicitly call out and explain the fields involved or at the very least point readers towards a page with the explanation.
IMO, you don't need to go beyond my suggestion below though.
```suggestion
    for the `productpage` workload. Once you apply the configuration, only the `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-productpage` service account is authorized to access the `details` and `reviews` workloads through `GET` methods.
```

Author: Reworded to simplify, we don't need to refer to the Bookinfo page at all.

>     for the `productpage` workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
    metadata:
      name: "details-viewer"
      namespace: default
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: details
      rules:
      - from:
        - source:
            principals: ["cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-productpage"]
        to:
        - operation:
            methods: ["GET"]
    ---
    apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
    kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
    metadata:
      name: "reviews-viewer"
      namespace: default
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: reviews
      rules:
      - from:
        - source:
            principals: ["cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-productpage"]
        to:
        - operation:
            methods: ["GET"]
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`). Now you should see the "Bookinfo Sample"
    page with "Book Details" on the lower left part, and "Book Reviews" on the lower right part. However, in the "Book Reviews" section,
    there is an error `Ratings service currently unavailable`. This is because "reviews" workload does not have permission to access

>     "ratings" workload. To fix this issue, you need to grant the `reviews` workload access to the `ratings` workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `ratings` workload. To fix this issue, you need to grant the `reviews` workload access to the `ratings` workload.
```

>     We will show how to do that in the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. Allow access to the `ratings` workload

>     The following command creates a policy to allow the `reviews` workload to access the `ratings` workload. Note that in the

Reviewer: Use the explanations to lead readers towards the next step. See a suggestion on how to do so below:
```suggestion
   Next, we need to create a policy that allows the `reviews` workload to access the `ratings` workload. 
```

Author: I have updated the doc with new structure and this is probably not needed.

>     [setup step](#before-you-begin), we created a `bookinfo-reviews` service account for the `reviews` workload. This

Reviewer: As mentioned above, this entire text is not only inaccurate, since the before you begin section does not contain the information, but also confusing. Do readers need to know that level of detail? I would change the text to make it easier to understand:
```suggestion
    Once you apply the configuration, the `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-reviews` service account is authorized to access the `ratings` workload through `GET` methods.
```

>     service account is the authenticated identify for the `reviews` workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

When you refresh the page, the app shows different versions of reviews in the product page.
The app presents the reviews in a round robin style: red stars, black stars, or no stars.

## Enforcing mesh-level access control

Using Istio authorization, you can easily setup mesh-level access control for all workloads in the mesh.

Run the following command to create a mesh-level access control policy:

> {{< text bash >}}

Author: These are embedded right in the task page. We have tests for the old task page but we don't have one for this for now.

It's more convenient for users to try out the new policy, they don't need access to local files and just need to copy and run the command. This technique is also used in many other tasks, like authentication and networking.

The other benefit is it reduces the maintenance burden, we could only maintain one copy of the sample policy.

> {{< text bash >}}

Author: I know we're trying to automate the test and I wrote the automatic test for the HTTP page in istio.

The command (kubectl apply) is used everywhere in istio.io and for any normal user, I don't think it's causing any problems for them to understand the command which is separate from the policy being applied.

> It is also a lot easier for them to copy paste a command that references a sample file and it is less error prone. Not all readers use the copy button.

You need to use the copy button even if it's referring to a sample file. Also it's very common for user to actually look at the contents of the yaml, if it's a link, the user have to do one more click to open the page and switch back to see the corresponding explanation of the yaml.

> Lastly and regarding maintaining the samples: it is better and easier to maintain the samples in the repository than trying to maintain the samples embedded in the content.

From my experience of maintaining the task and sample, it is harder to maintain them in separate repos because if you want to make some change to the sample, you usually need to do it separately in two PRs, one to update the sample and the other to update the doc, there is a gap here and could also introduce inconsistent between the doc and the sample because they are updated separately.

Also this is not about code freeze, the "code freeze" is actually one of the examples of how it is making the maintenance harder, we have to keep the two repo in sync which is just hard to maintain.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete authorizationpolicy.security.istio.io/deny-all -n istio-system
{{< /text >}}

## Enforcing namespace-level access control

Using Istio authorization, you can easily setup namespace-level access control by specifying all (or a collection of) workloads
in a namespace are accessible by workloads from another namespace.

In our Bookinfo sample, the `productpage`, `reviews`, `details`, `ratings` workloads are deployed in the `default` namespace.
The Istio components like `istio-ingressgateway` workloads are deployed in the `istio-system` namespace.

We can define a policy that any workload in the `default` namespace is accessible by workloads in the same namespace (i.e., `default`)
and workloads in the `istio-system` namespace.

Run the following command to create a namespace-level access control policy:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
metadata:
  name: "bookinfo-viewer"
  namespace: default
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        namespaces: ["default", "istio-system"]
    to:
    - operation:
        methods: ["GET"]
EOF
{{< /text >}}

> The command creates a `bookinfo-viewer` policy which allows read access to any workloads in the `default` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The created `bookinfo-viewer` policy grants read access to the workloads in the `default` namespace.
```

When you refresh the page, the app shows different versions of reviews in the product page.
The app presents the reviews in a round robin style: red stars, black stars, or no stars.

> ## Enforcing Mesh-level access control

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Enforcing mesh-level access control
```

Using Istio authorization, you can easily setup mesh-level access control for all workloads in the mesh.

Run the following command to create a mesh-level access control policy:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: deny-all
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  {}
EOF
{{< /text >}}

The command creates a `deny-all` policy with no workload selector in the root namespace `istio-system`, the policy
will select all workloads in the mesh.

Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`). Now you should see `"RBAC: access denied"`.
This is because Istio authorization is "deny by default" and the `deny-all` policy doesn't have any rules to allow any access to
workloads in the default namespace.

{{< tip >}}
There may be some delays due to caching and other propagation overhead.
{{< /tip >}}

> ### Cleanup Mesh-level access control

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Cleanup mesh-level access control
```

Remove the following configuration before you proceed to the next task:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete authorizationpolicy.security.istio.io/deny-all -n istio-system
{{< /text >}}

> ## Enforcing Namespace-level access control

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Enforcing namespace-level access control
```

    {{< /text >}}

    Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).

>     Now you should see the "Bookinfo Sample" page. Now you should see the "Bookinfo Sample" page.

Reviewer: Duplicate text.

Remove the following configuration before you proceed to the next task:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete authorizationpolicy.security.istio.io/bookinfo-viewer
{{< /text >}}

## Enforcing workload-level access control

> This task shows you how to set up workload-level access control using Istio authorization.

Reviewer: The introduction needs some additional explanation. Why are you starting with a denying all policy? What is the **best** flow to enforce access control at this level?
Generally, the task does not let readers know why they should use each level of access control. What are the goals at each level? When do I apply restrictions on each level?

Reviewer 2: +1. I think instead of explaining the 3 different scopes, it is better to show how the authz policies match (to workload) and combine.

Reviewer 3: +2. We can start with some introduction explaining the steps. So readers will get a picture of what this task demonstrates before delving into each step.

Author: I added a high-level summary for the big picture of the task.

@diemtvu For now I'm converting the old task that was focusing on the scope, I think we can rewrite to make this more useful by also talking explaining more about the selector part, but let's do it in a follow-up PR to avoid introducing too much new stuff in a single PR.

Reviewer 2: I think it's ok to rewrite the story in one PR.

Author: In terms of rewrite, I actually want to use sleep/httpbin in multiple namespaces demonstrate more features of the API, but for now I do not have enough time for the complete new task, we still need to update the migration/troubleshooting/etc. docs.

@liminw thoughts?

Author: The new application I'm thinking is `httpbin` and `sleep` which is currently used in many places in both networking tasks and the authentication task. The `httpbin` is much smaller and gives better deterministic response which helps a lot in automating the tests, it's not maintained by Istio and is a public tool used widely in many other projects.

I will not change this in this PR but I think it's a better replacement for the Bookinfo in the future.

> ### applying a default `deny-all` policy

Reviewer: This should be a step, not a heading.
```suggestion
1. Apply a default `deny-all` policy for the `default` namespace with the following command:
```

> In this step, we will create a default policy that denies all requests to workload in the default namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: deny-all
spec:
  {}
EOF
{{< /text >}}

> The command creates a `deny-all` policy with no workload selector, the policy will select all workloads in the default namespace.

Reviewer: This information should come before the command. This comment applies throughout. Make sure to explain what the command does and how before asking a reader to run it. This empowers readers to run the command with certainty around what it will do. This is true for this step and the subsequent ones.

> Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`). Now you should see `"RBAC: access denied"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whey you go to the `productpage` of Bookinfo  at `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`, you see the following error message: `"RBAC: access denied"`.
```

Author: Are you sure we want to start the sentence with `When...`? I remember I received comments when previously updating this page that we should start with a verb to indicate that this is asking user to do something explicitly.

> This is because Istio authorization is "deny by default" and the `deny-all` policy doesn't have any rules to allow any access to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error shows that the configured `deny-all` policy is working as intended, and Istio doesn't have any rules that allow any access to
```

workloads in the default namespace.

> {{< tip >}}

Reviewer: This tip should be served at the beginning of the task since readers need to be aware that after applying each configuration they need to wait for it to propagate.

Author: Moved the tip to the beginning of the task.

There may be some delays due to caching and other propagation overhead.
{{< /tip >}}

> ### allowing access to the `productpage` workload

Reviewer: See my edits for the previous step. This should be a numbered step not a heading. Please rewrite the text in lines 156-160 into a single numbered step as shown above.

We will create a policy that allows external requests to access the `productpage` workload.

Run the following command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
kind: "AuthorizationPolicy"
metadata:
  name: "productpage-viewer"
  namespace: default
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: productpage
  rules:
  - to:
    - operation:
        methods: ["GET"]
EOF
{{< /text >}}

> The command creates a `productpage-viewer` policy which allows read access to the `productpage` workload for all users and workloads.

Reviewer: Please include this information in the text before the command.

There may be some delays due to caching and other propagation overhead.
{{< /tip >}}

### Cleanup workload-level access control

> *   Remove Istio authorization policy configurations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Remove all authorization policies from your configuration:
```
